So, I thought today I could start just a little bit of background before going forward with
getting my self-realization in London.
I currently live in Florida, just an hour or so north of Alpina, who is in Miami.
I'm in a small town called Boynton Beach, very close to West Palm Beach.
And before that, I spent 25 years raising a family, three kids, in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
And before that, was in California for many years.
And then there was a five-year stint in California in between as well.
So it was back in the 1980s, I was in graduate school.
And was, well, I had been a seeker like all of you my entire lifetime, lifetimes, and
had studied.
But I was very naive and very ignorant, especially when I first came to Sajyoga.
Yeah, I was often and only speechless in Shri Mataji's presence.
So unlike many of my brothers and sisters who were asking very deep and poignant questions,
I just sat there completely silent.
And I didn't have that kind of depth, you could say, although I was a very avid seeker
and had studied, you know, a lot of the ancient scriptures, a lot of the enlightened poets
and writers, a lot of the texts of the realized souls, and in that got very lost in a false
guru before coming to Sajyoga.
But fortunately, by Mother's grace, decided to leave the graduate program because I was
just miserable and found my way to England.
I left America with the attitude that there was nothing here for me, it hadn't satisfied
my seeking.
Although I didn't know what that seeking was for, or was about, just knew that it was something
that I didn't have.
And so I dropped out of the PhD program, which was, yeah, it was a lot of work to get there.
So it was a lot also to give it up, but decided I was going to continue this journey and see
where it took me and found my way to England, where I was working as an au pair.
And two years before that, while I was exiting a class that I was co-teaching as the extracurricular
activity and new age consciousness, I met this young man who had a backpack, who was
backpacking across America.
And we became, we entered into a conversation.
He was the seeker, I was a seeker, he ended up staying and visiting for more than a week.
And we developed a close friendship and became pen pals.
And we wrote for more than a year, year and a half, maybe almost two years, about our
journey seeking.
And I knew that he lived in the UK.
And when I was there, I rank him up and he mentioned that he had been speaking for a
few months about Shri Mataji and his postcards to me and invited me to a program at Caxton
Hall.
So I made my way there.
And this was in the summer of 1981.
I remember very little about what Shri Mataji said.
I only recall being amazed that I realized everything she said was true.
And I had always felt that with so many of the individuals in the field of spirituality
that I had come across in my seeking, that there was always something that left me wanting
a lot of truth, but a lot of untruth with it.
So when I met Shri Mataji on that first day, I was thrilled and very excited that here
was somebody who spoke the truth.
And throughout her lecture, I remember thinking, oh, that makes perfect sense.
Why didn't I realize that or I should have known that or why didn't I think of that?
So after the program, everybody left.
I was one of the last to leave.
I made my way down to the sidewalk outside of Caxton Hall.
And I saw this group of young people standing about, oh, maybe 30 meters away.
And I had this desire, this thought, wow, they seem like such cool people.
I'd love to have friends like them.
So one of the yogis walked over and invited me for pizza with the group.
And from then on, it was no turning back.
I spent all of my free time at any one of the three ashrams at the time.
Of course, the first being Chelsea Road.
And there was, I think Malcolm was living there, Linda Williams, and quite a few others.
There was Earl's Court where my dear sister, Felicity, besistered me.
And I spent my weekends.
She had the tiniest little room.
It was about six by eight.
And I was on the floor and literally floorboards in Earl's Court ashram.
Chaya and Reggie lived there and other yogis.
And then of course, where Mother lived at Bromham Court Gardens, I think it's called Brompton Court.
And Jamal, Mio, Rosie, and others lived there as well.
I don't think Ray lived there, but a number of other yogis as well.
And I spent all of my free time there.
So I will fast forward now to, well, there was a wedding with the 16 yogis in Chelsea Road.
And I had taken my camera to take some pictures of Mother.
And at that time, I'd only been in sahaja yoga for less than a month.
And I did not recognize Shri Mataji.
But I remember at one point going to snap a picture of her.
I believe it was after the marriages had concluded.
And she looked at me.
She lifted up her sari.
And she revealed to me her very beautiful burgundy and gold buckled pumps, her shoes.
And I took a picture of her showing me what appeared to be brand new shoes, having no
clue at all what she was doing in that moment.
So there's also another photograph of Olympia from that day sitting on Shri Mataji's lap
that has circulated for many years.
And there's this halo around both Olympia and Mother.
And in that picture, she looks a lot like the mother with child.
It's a very sweet photograph.
So that was a huge blessing.
We move forward about a month.
The yogis were trying to convince me to return with Shri Mataji on her trip to America.
And for me, my desire was to move forward to Europe and to continue to explore the world.
I didn't understand nor yet value the gift that I had been given.
But I was avidly trying to experience what I was hearing everyone talk about.
And I didn't feel vibrations.
I don't recall feeling thoughtless awareness.
But I did have one experience which I will communicate, even though it did not directly
involve speaking with Shri Mataji.
But it was instrumental for me in recognizing the reality that Self-realization bestows
upon us.
So I had been quite sick.
That evening, there was a meeting at the Quaker Friends Meeting House in Hampstead.
And I made my way there.
I would walk about two kilometers to the train station.
I was living in the Twickenham, Richmond area.
And then get on the train and then take a bus to Hampstead.
So it was a bit of a journey.
I was feverish.
I was quite sick.
But I was determined to get there.
And while I was there, a yogi worked on me.
And he asked, are you foot soaking?
So I replied, no, what's foot soaking?
And I went home that evening to foot soak.
And mind you, I had not felt the vibrations, nor the cool breeze.
So that evening, while I was foot soaking, at one point, I looked at mother's picture.
It was in the old days, they used to give a Xerox copy on like pink paper of the all
aspects photo or green copy paper.
And so I had put it in frame.
And I was looking at the photograph through the candle.
And Srimataji's photograph transformed into a mirror.
And I was looking at myself.
And I thought, oh, this is not real.
Am I having a delusion?
I had been feverish that evening.
So I'm looking one direction than the other.
It's not changing.
It's a mirror.
And I'm looking at myself.
And at that moment, I had the thought, she is in me, and I am in her.
And at that moment, my Kundalini soared up.
And I felt these tremendous vibrations in the palm of my left hand.
And I could take with my right hand and move these vibrations
and everywhere I put my hand and moved my hand, these vibrations were flowing with my hand.
And that was the first moment for me.
It was a miracle experience.
And it empowered me to continue to pursue this.
So then about a month later, Srimataji had called all the yogis together in London
to give them instructions while she was away on the tour of the US.
I think it was about six-week-long tour, more than a month.
And the yogis had been, Linda Williams had been trying to push me to go with her.
And I had been declining to even consider it.
That evening, she spent a good number of hours, three or four hours, speaking to the collective.
I imagine there were about 40 or 50 yogis there.
And she was giving instructions how to do Havan for America, what gifts to purchase
for when she returned and took the Yogi's on Indian tour.
She met individually with yogis and was speaking and giving individual counsel.
And at the very end of the evening, she asked for the American girl.
And I was sitting in the very back.
And I didn't realize that Srimataji was referring to me.
She asked a second time.
And at that moment, Felicity, who was sitting beside me, started elbowing me in the ribs
to say, Srimataji is asking for you.
So I raised my hand and she said, I'm leaving in the morning for America.
Can you join me?
And at that moment, the first thought that came through my head was, I wonder if I've
saved up enough.
Before I could finish the thought, Srimataji said, I've already purchased your ticket.
So my mind raced ahead.
And I'm wondering, where am I going to stay?
She's going to a number of cities where I don't know anyone.
Who am I going to?
And before I could finish the thought, once again, she said, you will be staying with
me throughout the tour.
And I also had the thought, how am I going to travel?
To go from New York to Texas to, she was going to be in Philadelphia and California.
And before I could finish the thought, she said, all of your expenses will be covered,
are being covered.
And they're taken care of.
You don't have to worry about any of those expenses, as you will be traveling and staying
with me.
So that, you know, I had already said yes, Srimataji, once again, always in Mother's
Presence, I was forever speechless, almost.
There were a few occasions where I did ask a question, but most of the time, I didn't.
I was always admiring my brothers and sisters who came up with these lofty questions to
ask Mother about the world.
And I was, I just didn't have that depth at that point.
So she instructed a few of the brothers to take me back to the house where I was staying
and to bring me back to sleep on the floor of the meditation room where she was living
at Brompton Square.
And the next morning, I find myself at the airport with Srimataji and Sursi P. And maybe
about a half a dozen or so yogis, two of them sisters, Felicity and Rosie.
And I had made a copy of the photograph of Olympia sitting on Mother's lap for both of
those sisters as a gift.
And when I took them out to hand it to Felicity, the first, Srimataji was standing to my right,
and she saw the photograph and took it out of my hand and said, Oh, is this for me?
And then Sursi P. saw the photograph in Mother's hand and said, Oh, is this for me?
So he took the photograph from Mother.
And then I gave the second copy that I had made for Rosie and Srimataji took, she saw
that in my hand and handed the one to Sursi P. And then I handed her the second one.
And the next thing were on the airplane to come to the States.
She was traveling in coach.
And I was sitting a ways back on that airplane was a contingent of musicians who were in
an orchestra in the UK, and they were going to America to perform.
And I had put the little photograph, a little black and white all aspects photo of Mother
on the back of the seat in front of me to meditate.
And this gentleman next to me, who was in the orchestra had asked about Srimataji, got
his realization and asked to meet her.
And Mother being as gracious as ever, I had gone up when she had woken up, well, Mother
never sleeps, but she had been with her eyes closed.
And she was very gracious to meet him and to speak with him, to bless him.
And you could just see the tremendous joy on this gentleman's face.
So I won't forget that she was accessible always to everyone.
We arrived in New York, and we stayed at the Prince George Hotel, if I remember correctly.
There was a small group of yogis.
I don't recall anybody else being on that flight except Nima, Nirmala, Nirmala Modi,
Rajesh's sister, who was attending to Srimataji, but there were others who also arrived.
One was Warren.
Further on in the tour, others came from Australia, but at that point, there were very few.
Marsha was there, Linda Taylor's sister.
There were two rooms, one for the sisters and one for the brothers.
And I believe there were four of us in the one room of ladies.
I don't remember who else was there.
I know Kay came on that tour from Australia, but I don't recall whether they were actually
in New York or came in Los Angeles.
And Diane from Australia was there as well.
So we were at the hotel, and Srimataji did seven programs over seven nights.
The first of the programs were at a place called the East-West Center.
And then the very last program was at a huge church in uptown Manhattan.
That was a Baptist church.
And Srimataji had given realization to the, I think he's called the minister, and had
spoken to him.
And she had said to him that now he could give realization to, he could give second
birth to all of the congregation.
Let's see.
So there were a couple of experiences in the hotel.
The first day she had asked us to all go and reach out to anybody who we might know, relatives,
friends, colleagues, anybody, to let them know about the programs.
And I had been in a relationship with a young man before getting my realization.
And we had separated.
And for me, staying in London on my own was, it's the first time I was away on my own.
And it was, I just remember thinking to myself, put one foot in front of the other, and you're
going to be okay.
And that was just less than a week before getting my realization.
But I want to say that after realization, I began to see how the divine power, the deities,
the devas had been guiding me.
So we have this notion of free will.
And I was beginning to recognize, at least for myself, that every moment I was being
directed and guided by the divine power, by the deities, by the devas, the angels, and
that they were guiding me each and every step of the way to find the Devi in this lifetime.
And I know we have this idea of free will.
I don't know if other yogis feel the same way about this, but I really felt at that
time that I was completely under this divine direction.
And I didn't feel, I mean, it wasn't a thinking thing or an emotional thing.
I didn't feel that I had this.
The divine was guiding me in an unconscious way and gave me experiences and thoughts and
ideas that dictated my choices and decisions.
And I don't think without the divine having, I don't know what better word to use than
control.
It's not control.
But this idea of free will was absolutely not a part of the equation at that time and
to this day.
So I don't feel without the divine having been so powerfully instrumental in guiding
me at that time that I would be here today.
A little thing, like I was on my way to the very first program at Caxton Hall and I got
to the front doors.
It seemed early.
Nobody was there.
And I turned, I thought to myself, I had no idea about who Shri Mataji was, but I had
this thought, I should be bringing flowers and walked back to the subway station, the
underground and bought a bouquet of flowers then to offer to the lady who was arranging
the flowers on the altar beside Shri Mataji's chair before she had arrived.
It was always little things like that, that were not of my own volition or my own willpower
or thought process.
So that being said, I went to go notify this young man who I had been in the relationship
with that I was in the US, in New York.
I knocked on the door.
He answered, and what are you doing here?
So I explained, I invited him to meet Shri Mataji.
He agreed.
And he followed me back to the hotel that day.
We got back, mother had just finished lunch.
We walked in the door.
I introduced her to him and him to her.
And she called him up.
He slipped off his shoes.
He was wearing a dress shirt, a button down.
He worked at the bank of the Fed, the Federal Reserve.
And he had just called in to say that he wouldn't be coming to work that day.
So he went down on his knees before Shri Mataji.
And she slipped her feet out from under her sari.
And he bowed down and put his head on her feet.
And at that moment, mother pointed to the base of his spine.
And the room was silent.
You couldn't, you know, there wasn't a sound.
But as she pointed, we could see the Kundalini pulsating.
And it was pulsating and rising up to the Nabhi chakra where it stopped.
And it was pulsating.
And some of you may have heard this story before, how all of a sudden the spinal column,
which was in this shape, we heard a loud crack like lightning.
It was so powerfully loud.
And all of a sudden, we could see the spine go like that.
And the Kundalini shot up.
And Shri Mataji mentioned that.
And he sits up and she says to him, I leave next week for Houston.
Will you chaperone me?
And I remember thinking, oh, dear, this can't be happening.
I panicked.
I thought to myself, we can't be together.
I had spent the last month and a half working on myself, the Mooladhara to reestablish my
chastity.
And I was terrified that here we're going to be traveling with Mother together.
This can't be.
But he said yes.
He accepted her invitation.
She told him to go get his things and to move into the hotel room with the brothers.
There were three brothers staying in the room.
And she asked me to accompany him to help him show him and to bring him back.
So I'm going with him back in those days, we didn't have suitcases or luggage, we had
backpacks.
And he put what he wanted in his backpack and left the job and left the flat.
And we went to go back to the hotel.
So we just heard a talk this past weekend during our weekly collective meeting here
in South Florida, although it's Florida-wide, our evening Saturday collectivity is broadcasted
statewide.
And there was a talk that we listened to, I believe it was 1980.
Let's see, what was the talk?
In the talk, all I can say is in the talk.
So she talks about how the Divine has instilled within us the desire to get married, that
it is innate, that is an innate desire.
That was not something I had ever been interested in nor thought about.
And yet as we were returning back to the hotel, standing under a street lamp about to cross
the busy intersection to the underground Metro, I felt this powerful energy rising within
me.
And I had this very strong desire to get married.
And I turned to him and said to him, we should get married.
Which shocked me that those words were coming out of my mouth, but I was filled with joy.
And I did not realize that he had sent an engagement Sapphire in platinum for me that
was currently or had been traveling across to England as I had been flying across to
America.
And it did come back.
So I still have it to this day.
We went back to the hotel room, he got settled and I returned to mother's room.
I was also, she had asked for me.
She went to retire to her bedroom for a nap.
And I sat to meditate.
And at that moment, while I was sitting there in that time, I felt my Kundalini rising very
powerfully.
And I had the thought, she Mataji is doing it.
And she wanted me to know that she was doing it.
And at that moment, she called for me, she called my name.
So I went in.
And she spoke a lot of times.
I don't have like Avdou did all of these, he shared photographs of experiences with
mother that pertain to collective growth, collective understanding, collective matters.
With mother for myself, it was it was generally personal, for the most part, although there
are, I will share many of them in spite of the fact that they're personal, because I
feel that they are really beneficial for, for a lot of us that she, she was helping
me to grow and transform.
And that the same lessons that she was teaching me can, can help others.
So I sat there as she was talking about the horrible banking system in America, as she
was speaking about how harsh the hotel shampoo was and asked me to go get her a different
brand of shampoo.
I don't think I fulfilled that one.
I mean, what I picked was probably something equally as bad as the hotel.
She she at one point, she was wearing glasses, and she took her glasses off.
And she looked at them and said, glasses are good.
They slow you down.
And I remember thinking, what does that even mean?
And it took me years until a sister said she was telling you to slow down.
So it's true, you know, she, Mataji never came out.
Well, that's not true.
She didn't often come out and correct us.
So directly, often it was indirectly as in that situation.
And afterwards, I asked mother, I said, Mother, Michael and I would like your blessings to
get married.
And she spoke with me about him and myself, and she gave her blessings.
And then later that week, she took us to the diamond district, the jewelry district in
New York City.
And she instructed him what to buy, you know, how to shop for a diamond.
She wanted a specific diamond, it was to be 16 points, just good as it wasn't more because
we had very little money in those days.
And yeah, I'll share this story.
I've told it before, even though it didn't directly involve Shri Mataji per se, she dropped
us off in the diamond district.
After instructing Michael, you know how to purchase the stone and to make the ring.
And so we spent the afternoon looking and it was a Friday and it was getting late by
the time we found the diamond that Shri Mataji had very detailed explained the clarity, the
color, the size, and so on.
So we went over to the big building that was the jewelry mart and it was empty, it was
dark.
It was still open.
It was around three o'clock.
Most of the jewelers were of the Jewish faith.
And so it being Sabbath, the place had closed and it was cavernous.
It was huge.
And there were all these blue booths with like flexible bulletproof glass, you know,
that lined the rows of the floor.
And we inquired, there was one jeweler who was still there, who agreed to set the stone.
And we were to come back in two hours, which we did.
And Michael paid him.
He came over and he went to slip the ring on my finger.
And at that moment, my Kundalini came up so strongly that I lost consciousness and I fainted.
And he grabbed me so that I didn't hit my head on that marble floor.
And I remember just realizing at that moment that the marriage was done.
It was solemnized by the divine.
And I knew that at that moment, Mother had taken care of all of those worries and fears
and it was a new chapter.
So let's see, moving forward.
That was the tour, the last night, the seventh night at the church in uptown Manhattan.
I don't remember the name of the church.
I'm sorry.
It was a Baptist and it was grand.
It was huge.
There was another large cathedral that Mother had spoken in many years later in the 90s.
It was called St. John of the Divine at Columbia University.
So it was a big hall like that.
Maybe not quite as big.
That was the talk where Shri Mataji announced that she was the Holy Ghost, the Holy Spirit.
She started to walk off the stage but stopped and turned around and declared that I am the
Holy Ghost.
I am the Holy Spirit.
I was sitting there and I remember, yes, Kay was there.
I remember Kay being there as well.
And I was in awe.
There were no words and there were no thoughts.
I just was transfixed that this was the moment of a lifetime.
Mother had asked for...
Most of the tour, most of that tour was spent writing press releases and putting ads in
the papers and securing speaking venues.
Nothing had been done there.
There were no sahaja yogis except for Dr. Warlicker in Los Angeles and Steve Kirby and
Christine in Boston.
My mother went there for one day.
And we did have a puja on Staten Island.
It was a relative of Shri Mataji.
Gregor was there.
And we did...
It was Navaratri.
I believe it was October because this was the last maybe 10 days or so in September
that the tour was in New York.
So there were maybe about 12 or so of us, maybe 15 at that puja, which I think might
have been the very first puja in the United States.
So it was a puja to the goddess, to Durga.
I remember just the vibrations were so strong, my subtle system couldn't tolerate it.
I had been so badly damaged in my seeking with the false gurus.
And I studied parapsychology and worked in that field as well at the Neuropsychiatric
Institute in Los Angeles and other places like acupuncture clinics and worked with healers.
And I did Karelian photography.
So I had really been...
There was a lot of damage on the physical, mental and emotional level.
I was standing with mother before I was blessed to be in her hotel room with her most of that
time in New York.
And I remember finding one of her hair on the plate of food that she had eaten that
day.
And so I saved that piece of hair.
And when I was with her at one point, I asked mother if I could keep it.
And she agreed.
I knew that her hair was bestowed by Lord Yama, the god of death, and that it was a
huge responsibility.
She instructed me how to do puja to it every day by cleaning it with coconut oil.
And I made a little pillow that I had threaded it onto a satin pillow in a glass box.
And each day, cleaned mother's hair.
And she said it was for my protection.
So there was a call in the 90s to return her hair.
And at that point I did.
I felt at that point that it wasn't necessary.
We had collectivity all over the country by then.
But back in 1981, there was really just not even a handful of us.
Let's see.
Anything else about New York?
Yes.
I was going to mention that we were leaving for a public program.
And mother stopped in the doorway and she turned around.
I was behind her that time.
And she just looked at me and tilted her head.
And she was looking and she was asking me, who is the false guru that you went to?
She knew I had talked with her about that.
But I had never mentioned who it was.
At that moment, I mentioned his name and her eyes grew enormous and full of wrath.
And I felt like I could just shrivel up and just sink into the mother earth.
She was furious.
And she said, how could you?
He's a murderer.
And of course, as a naive seeker, we were told that he had been imprisoned for murder
because he, like so many other great realized souls, had been persecuted and tortured and
poisoned and crucified.
And he was placed by the disciples and his followers in that category.
And I just didn't know any different.
So these were some of the interactions from that time.
She also, as we were getting that same time after she said that, she said, the time for
suffering is over.
Your suffering is over.
And I asked mother at that moment, why did I have to suffer so much as a child?
I was quite unwell.
I could go in.
I mean, we all come from, you know, all different backgrounds, but mine was specifically I had
run away from home, got in trouble with the law, had done drugs, etc, etc, etc.
Because, you know, my father was tremendously unwell, having nervous breakdown.
And as the oldest of five, that was the responsibility to hold it together because my mom wasn't
capable.
So I just I asked mother at that same time, you know, why did I go through?
Why did I have to suffer so much?
And she said, so that you could recognize and appreciate the light is the way is the
words that she spoke.
One time I was holding a bag of chana.
She had always requested that we have a bag of chana before the public programs and we
know that mother ate the chana as she consumed the negativity, the the boots and the vadas
of the seekers in the audience.
And I said, I was terribly misidentified growing up in a very Zionist Jewish upbringing.
I asked her, you know, the Jews are lost as mother, the Jews are just completely lost.
Can you please save them as many as are in this bag of chana?
And she just looked at me with a big smile and she said that could be difficult.
She said it as if, hmm, there were a lot of chana in the bag.
So she sent me ahead to California to plan the programs of which nothing had been prepared.
There were no halls, no advertisements, nothing had been done for the time that she was going
to be in Los Angeles or Santa Cruz.
That's the tour where Gregoire had asked her to please go to Santa Cruz because it was
a Mecca of seekers and it's a place that because of the weather and and a number of other things
was inundated with false gurus.
And so his concern for the false gurus led him to ask mother to go to Santa Cruz.
And this was the tour where she went there.
She sent me ahead.
She went to Houston and Michael went with her to Houston and I went on to Los Angeles.
And she had given me the phone number and name of a woman who I reached out to, but
nothing came from the conversation.
And then Dr. Werlecker, who was very busy and didn't have time to get together.
So my days were spent booking, researching and booking halls, putting ads in the newspapers,
getting the hotel room and reserving a car and things of that sort.
And then picking shimatuchi up and I was staying with my parents and at that time they
were very unhappy that I was no longer in that PhD program and that I was in this what
they thought was a cult.
So let's see.
There were more Australians that came at that point.
We stayed at a hotel called the Shangri-La.
Mother had, there was a suite.
Mother had a room and some of us stayed in the other room and then there were rooms for
the yoginis and for the yogis.
Mother did a series of programs at a school in the auditorium.
And we were in the hotel room one day and she had asked for a hair dryer, which I had
brought, which I brought from home.
And she turned around to me and she said to me, you know, why is it that your parents
are against the sahaja yoga?
I didn't know how to answer the question.
She pointed to her nose and said, can't they see I have a Jewish nose?
So there was a lot of, you know, attention on me and drama and shimatuchi told me, forget
them.
She spoke those two words, which are seared in my memory, forget them.
And I understood after years of grappling with how do I best do this, that she wanted
me to become completely detached, unemotionally involved, no emotion.
However, to still maintain the dharma of a daughter, because without that I was inviting
just a way, what's the word, an enormous amount of negative attention.
So I needed to learn how to walk a very fine line between being gracious and civil and
responsible and I guess you could say dutiful and at the same time being completely detached
and emotionally uninvolved.
And that was a struggle.
But I feel like that was a task that she had set out for me in this lifetime.
And I feel that it went pretty well.
So what else about Los Angeles?
I'll just, okay, now let's see.
After one of the programs, she had invited some of the seekers back to the hotel room
and the next day, she was dictating a press release to submit to the newspapers.
And there was a young man that came who had attended the program.
And I remember he asked Shri Mataji about the big earthquake, when is it going to come?
And she got very annoyed and she said to him, with a very stern and authoritative and strong
voice, don't ask for it yet.
We have too many that need to be saved.
There are too many that need to be saved.
To me, it stood out because he was asking what seemed rather innocently the question.
And yet, we could tell from a comment like that, all the levels that she was working
on.
Okay, I want to just say here, I owe a debt of gratitude to the Australians who came to
California at that time, to Los Angeles, they brought with them 21 cassette tapes, which
was the first I ever received and they were a lifeline.
They brought photographs of mother.
They I just know their generosity, their love, their attention that year and in subsequent
years were everything.
Their support was incredible.
So my love to the Australians for having come on that tour and helped in so many ways.
There's one last thing about Los Angeles that I'll mention, there was a public program one
evening and afterwards, there was a woman in the back who raised her hand, but when
she called on her, or maybe it was Warren, she couldn't speak.
She was just, you know, there were tears and mother said to her, you can, you're smelling
my you're smelling the fragrance that yes, what you're smelling is me.
And shortly after that, another seeker in the audience asked mother about the Vietnam
war and about the slaughter of the people in Cambodia by the Khmer Rouge.
And I'll mention this because I mean, I don't know whether the Q&A for that public program
if it was recorded.
But what mother said really made a big impression on me.
And she asked this woman, she said, why are you feeling guilty?
Did you?
Have you killed anyone?
Have your parents or your was it your ancestors who who have done these atrocities?
Why are you feeling guilty?
She was really hammering on how in America, and I can say that I've seen this year after
year that the majority of Americans the left is shooty is, is really one of the greatest
problems obviously coming from Muldarrab.
But nevertheless, this left is shooty, especially in the women is in transient to set the right
word.
It just often doesn't budge.
It's so like rooted into the subtle system and psyche of America understandably.
And she she went on to say, you know, it's not your fault.
You you don't bear any of the responsibility.
And then she stopped and paused.
And she then said, Well, in fact, yes.
You do bear Americans do bear some of the responsibility.
You eat a lot of beef.
A lot of the cows sacrifice their lives for you.
And they are, I don't know if she used the word blessed, they evolve.
And so they have to evolve as well.
And she made us understand that we do not need to feel guilty for the death of these
innocent or maybe not innocent souls, but it's through this means that at this time,
the evolution is progressing faster.
She said, they have to get their realization one day as well.
So in other words, what I understood from that was that the slaughter of the souls in
this country was in some way sanctioned by the divine, so that these souls could evolve.
And at some point, also receive their self realization.
Okay, so the tour ended in for me, in Santa Cruz, I think mother may have gone to Vancouver
for one day.
I had during my time while she was in Houston, flown up to Santa Cruz to reserve the do the
same thing, find a hall and place the ads in the newspapers, there were actually quite
a lot of people that came back then a lot was around 50 or 60, maybe 100.
We were all sitting on the floor in a hall, it was a like a yoga studio, how it was a
yeah, it was some kind of studio.
And there was also a radio station broadcasting from the same facility in Santa Cruz.
She did three programs there.
And I don't have a lot of recollections about that time.
It was very busy.
We were all day postering, you know, reaching out and fliering.
So before we knew it, mother was leaving.
And she had asked Michael and I to remain in Santa Cruz to look after the seekers.
We had agreed, she wanted to make sure that he would be able to get a job which ended
up not being so easy as we had assured her.
And we were at the airport saying goodbye to mother, it was just Michael, myself and
mother.
I don't know why the other yogis weren't there.
Some had already left.
But it was the three of us and she at that point took off the bangles from her, her hand
and put them on me on my arm and said these bangles are for your protection.
They will absorb the negativity and break so that you don't.
And so to this day, I am grateful that mother had I, I didn't wear them all till they broke.
There are still a few that are in the altar.
And I take all the new bangles and put them in salt water next to the bangles that mother
gave and vibrate them and I feel that they have been a protection as well as the bandhan
all these years.
So I feel like it's something she it's a gift of the Devi to the women, the bangles.
So that's another aside.
Mother came in 1983.
Again.
Oh, I want to share.
Do we still have time?
Are we out of time?
When we won't be out of time until you finish tracing.
Okay, I'd love to share.
Staying with mother in the hotel room in 1983 in San Diego.
So there were very few times that I actually spoke to mother without having first been
spoken to by her.
But we had woke up in the morning.
And she asked me to retrieve a sari from her luggage.
And I took it out of the suitcase, the one that she had asked for.
And it was all crumpled.
It was badly wrinkled.
And so I offered to iron it for Shrimataji.
And she said, No, that's okay.
But still being incredibly ignorant.
And couldn't bear the thought of mother wearing a wrinkled sari, obviously, little did I know,
offered again, and a third time, on the third time, she accepted the offer.
And I took out the ironing board.
And having been a fairly decent person capable of ironing, proceeded to iron Shrimataji sari,
except it wouldn't stay on the ironing board.
It fell onto the floor, I picked it up, put it back on, started ironing again, and she
sat on the bed just watching with a big smile.
Again, went to iron and again, it slipped off.
And I'm thinking, what the heck is going on?
I lifted it up again, a third time, ironing.
And once again, there it goes, slides right off.
And at that moment, realized my folly and pulled my ears and humbly picked up the sari.
And mother laughed and said, That's all right.
I'll take it.
And she went into the into the restroom.
And when she came out, there wasn't a wrinkle or a spot it had been soiled as well.
It looked completely brand new.
And once again, I just pulled my ears.
We were returning after the programs in San Diego to Los Angeles that year for a public
program in Los Angeles.
And so that I think it was the following day, perhaps, that we were getting ready to leave
the room and drive back up.
And I had opened the door to let mother exit the room.
And she stopped in the doorway.
So I was holding the door.
And I turned around, and she wasn't moving.
She just stood there.
And I'm sure I have that.
Well, maybe some of you have heard this because this was one of the most memorable moments
of all of those times with Shri Mataji.
And she said to me, Do not listen to anyone who tells you that you are too right sided.
I need you to do my work.
And then she said, I am depending on you.
I cannot depend on and then she was talking about yogis who were left sided and, you know,
drinking tea, and some other things which we don't need to allude to.
But she said, you have to do my work.
And then she made a promise.
She said, if there is anything you want to do for Sahaja Yoga, I promise you will have
everything you need.
I think she said all the resources you need to do it.
And I have lived by that promise every day.
Well, at least I've tried.
And there have been so many times where, so I'll just mention that since then, I've come
to understand that my strong desires, which mostly evolve in meditation, are actually
her desires that she's bestowing upon me or giving to me.
And sometimes it takes a while for them to sort of percolate matriculate up into my attention
into my awareness.
And it is a process of growth and evolution that these desires that have come up in me
over the years.
I know yogis say we should be desireless, or we shouldn't have an ego, but that's not
been my experience.
Sometimes these desires get so strong.
There have been times where, I'll mention one example, it was the Culture of the Spirit
tour in 2013.
We were doing a summer family art camp.
This was pre-Nirmal Arts Academy.
But nevertheless, we had been inviting the artists like Sandesh and Guruji and Avanendra
and Anandita and Kinga came to teach dance and there were many who came.
And so I had this strong desire that these great artists should have an opportunity to
perform on a world class stage, not just for giving realization.
Yes, that's part of the equation.
But it was my desire that they experience really the glory that they deserve, that they
have earned by the merits of their artistry.
There were so many times on that tour where the desire was under attack or thwarted, where
we needed funding from the National Council and it was declined.
And then a couple of Yuvas put together an Indiegogo campaign to raise money and the
National Council said, no, they didn't want that to be done.
I just remember once again, bowing down to Mother with tears saying, I know you want
this to be done.
So I've tried and I haven't been successful.
It's not happening, Mother.
You have to do it.
And just as every other time, she fulfilled her promise every time.
And not only that, but I really had a strong desire to give compensation to the artists.
I felt that it was incumbent upon us to not just reimburse them for their airfare, but
they are giving weeks of their time and that we should compensate them financially.
And once again, Mother came through and it was a real, you know, I was incredibly grateful
that she provided all the means to make those things happen.
And I feel like they were her desires that were just the instrument by which, I mean,
you could say she's desireless, her desire, but it's as if she knows what each of us is
capable of, obviously.
And we each have our dharma to fulfill those capacities, to use them in whatever way we
can for the spreading of sahaja yoga.
In my life, it's been raising three children.
Two of them are married in sahaja and providing opportunities for seekers and yuvas and brothers
and sisters.
It's just, I haven't, you know, we each will have different functions and roles to play.
So the development of kenujahari was a big part of my life in sahaja and running children's
camps and yuva seminars and puja seminars and health and wellness camps and the summer
arts academy, which became the family summer arts academy before the Nirmal arts academy.
It wasn't an academy.
It was a camp, the summer family art camp.
And now it's minivashi, but back then it was the health and wellness seminar.
So watching those evolve over the last 30, 40 years has really been a gift to me.
And again, this notion that to be egoless has also never quite sat in the exact manner,
but more that the faculties of our intellect to be enlightened and used by the spirit,
not that we are controlled by it, but that it is at the bequest of the divine.
So just slightly different perspective.
Okay.
I would like to share one other story, which was real.
I'm sure you know, everyone here has witnessed miracles that mother has performed.
This one was quite profound and dramatic.
It took place in Cincinnati.
I don't remember the year it was in the nineties.
She had a public program at an outdoor amphitheater called Eden park, which is just outside of
the downtown Cincinnati area.
And after the program, she welcomed the members of the audience to come up and to meet and
greet and one by one, they came and I was sitting on one of the benches towards the
front.
It was outdoor seating and just, I think I was caring for somebody's child while they
were attending to mother.
And at one point, this I'd say young man, he must've been in his twenties.
He came up and he was grossly deformed, probably the most deformed human being I've ever seen
in my life.
He could not stand up straight.
He was completely bent over with the hands, pretty much touching the ground.
And he had a very difficult time walking.
He was, you know, it was almost as if every bone in his body was broken or looked to be
deformed.
And he went up to Srimataji and she worked on him and she had, I believe a few of the
others work on him as well with candle, possibly.
I don't remember how long this lasted, but as mother worked on him, the deformities began
to give way until this young man was standing fully erect.
And before our eyes, we watched this, you know, really badly affected human being stand
up in his complete potential, you know, his complete, I would say glory.
And Srimataji instructed him to continue to come to the weekly meetings.
She asked a few of the yogis to assist him, to give him information about the follow-up.
And as he began to walk off the stage, which was probably about 20 meters, because it was
a rather large stage, as he took step after step, he slowly returned into that deformed
posture.
And by the time he got to the end of the stage, he was back into the same position that he
was when he climbed the stairs to go on the stage.
And at that moment, mother had pointed to him and said, see, he is unable to forget.
It's his memory.
He cannot forget the past.
And she was quite strong about it.
There might be others who remember a little more in detail, if she had said anything else.
But that was the gist of it, that it's our memory, our conditionings that act through
our memory that control us, that keep us from fully, from being capable of sustaining
the advances, the heights, or the growth that we experience.
So that was the lesson at Eden Park in Cincinnati.
Okay, I'll just do one more.
This was, let's see, my oldest son was around 15.
So that would be around 98.
Shrimantaji came to Washington, DC.
And our oldest son Joshua had been fortunate to have a lot of opportunity to spend time
with mother.
He had, year after year, gone up onto the stage begging mother to make it possible for
him to go to Dharamshala.
And this one year at the Center for Ethical, the Society for Ethical Studies or something
in Central Park in New York, again, he went up on the stage begging her.
And she said, you know, without your father's permission, that's another story for another
day because Michael wasn't practicing, has not been practicing for many years.
So she had said, it's just not possible without your father's permission, but maybe I'll,
or I might have to write him a letter or something like that.
So he was attending to her, helping carry the luggage.
And I think we were on the tram, the trolley, out to the gate to see mother off.
So the CP was there and Joshua was carrying the briefcase.
And we came to the gate back in those days, you could go all the way through.
And there was a group, maybe 30 or 40 yogis that had accompanied mother to the airport.
And I went to, she allowed each of us to, she spent time to say goodbye to each one
of us.
And I went with the three children and bowed down at mother's feet, the four of us together.
And when I sat up, she looked at me and said, and she always called me Tracy, the children
are very good.
They are connected.
You are connected to me and they are connected to you.
And I understand what she was, she knew how much I sort of grieved that they hadn't been
able to attend Sahaj schools, the Rome school or Boratyn or Darmshad.
And that was always something that was a bit of a sadness within me for them.
And I feel what she was saying is that when we do her work, she looks after all those
whom we love.
So I really felt that she was sharing that message.
I felt it very strongly that, well, just that.
And I suppose we've come to a good place to stop.
I wanted to mention that because I hope we can share that with a lot of people that are
coming to Sahaja Yoga nowadays.
That if they can understand the value of being the instrument of the Divine, then the Divine
will look after all of their concerns, all of their problems and all of their loved ones.
Jai Shree Mataji.